(upbeat music)
- Now it's time to put your new skills
to the test in a programming challenge.
The Landon Hotel is building a guest service class
to help manage guests room preferences and check-in.
In the class, you'll find three methods stubs
and instructions for completing each method.
Unit tests have also been provided like the past challenges
to help you validate your work.
The first method that you'll need to complete
is filter by favorite room.
It asks you to build a new collection of guests
from the provided list.
The new collection should contain guests
who've placed the provided room in the first position
of their preferred room list.
The next method check-in requires you to enter a guest
into the check-in list similar to our last lesson.
However, you'll notice the list has now been added
into the guest service class.
For the challenge, the check-in method must add
the guests provided as an argument into the check-in list.
Guests are added into the list in the order
they're passed to the method, with one little caveat,
loyalty program members will be placed ahead of other guests
that are not in the program.
The final method you'll need to complete is swap position.
Here you'll trade the places of two guests
within the check-in list.
To do this, it must check that both guests
are in the list prior to doing the swap.
Make sure you follow the numbering sequence
and code this method last
because it relies upon guests being checked in.
So that's the challenge.
Just be aware, the second method
is a little bit more difficult,
but I'm sure you're up for it.
So go ahead and pause the video and give it a shot
when you're ready, resume the video to see my solution.
Hey, welcome back.
Are you ready to see my solution?
In the first method we were provided
with a list of guests and a room.
We need to find the guests in the list
that had indicated the provided room
was their first preference in their preferred room list.
Now I thought this was a great candidate
for a stream and a filter operation.
So I took our lists of guests and I stream them
into the filter method.
And from here, I used a Lambda expression
to create a predicate.
In the predicate, I got the preferred room list
for each guest and I invoked the index of method on it,
passing in the room as an argument.
This gave me the position of the room
within the preferred room list.
I knew that if the room was in the first position,
it was their favorite.
So I could go ahead and invoke the collect method
and use a collector in order to gather
these guests into a list.
This satisfied the return type of the filter by favorite
room method, and my work was complete.
The next method check-in was made a little bit more
difficult by some edge cases involving the loyalty program.
The first thing that I did was I created an if statement
that had an else block.
Inside of the conditional for the if statement,
I checked to see if the guests was a loyalty program member.
Now, I also decided to do a check to make sure
that the check-in list was not empty.
If either of these conditions were false
and we dropped into the else block,
the logic was fairly simple.
We could just go ahead and add the guest
into the check-in list.
That's because we didn't need to place them in any special
position because they weren't a loyalty program member
or the check-in list was empty
and we just put them in the first position.
Now, the logic got much more difficult
if the guests were in the loyalty program.
To handle this, I created a for loop that iterated
through all the guests in the check-in list.
Now, one thing I did with the for loop
is I took the initialization statement and I moved it
outside of the for loops declaration.
And this allowed me to access the counter
outside of for loop, and you'll see why
that was important in a minute.
Inside of the for loop, I created another if statement
and here I used the check-in list
to get each guest with the counter.
So I passed the counter in, which was the index,
and that got me each guest out of list.
And then I just checked to see
if they were a loyalty program member.
If they were, I just continued the loop
because I knew their position in the list was secure
and we weren't going to put somebody in front of them.
Now, if we iterated through this loop
and a guest were not a loyalty program member,
that would mean we wanted to put a loyalty program member
at their position.
So at this point I broke the loop
and I knew that I had captured the position
at which I broke the loop in the counter.
So from there, what I could do was just place the guest
into the check-in list at that position
designated by the counter.
So here you can see I pass in the counter
and then I pass in the loyalty program member
and they will assume that spot within the list.
So that's how I solved the problem with the check-in method.
And from there, I moved on to work on
the swap position method.
This method accepted two guests as arguments,
and we needed to exchange their positions within the list.
So to do that, the first thing that I did was
I got the position of the first guest
within the check-in list using the index of method.
And then I did the same for the second guest.
So I just created another integer position two,
and then passed in guests two, into the index of method.
Now I wanted to make sure that both guests
were in the check-in list.
So to do that, I just created an if statement
and inside of the if statement, I checked that the position
was not equal to negative one.
And then I just did that for the second position as well.
So inside of the body of this if statement,
we could successfully perform the swap
because we knew that both guests were in the check-in list,
Let's go ahead and we'll work on the swap.
We can do that using the set method.
So all pass in position one as my index,
and then I'll place guests to in position one.
And then from there, I'll just do the inverse.
I'll pass in position two as the index,
and then guess one will be placed in position two.
And that successfully completes our swap.
All right, let's go ahead,
we'll run our tests to make sure everything checks out.
So I'll just right click, go to run as J unit test
and there we can see our test pass.
Now you might've gone about the solution
for this challenge in a different way,
and that's okay because when you're working
with collections, there's many ways to solve a problem.